well we have a lot of new content so
there's nine new civilizations and all
sorts of new building some units but we
really like to emphasize the new game
systems that have gone on so the biggest
one of those is probably religion right
at the beginning of the game
civilizations can start to worship a
pantheon of gods which gives them one
new gameplay benefit and it just kind of
builds from there throughout the
medieval and renaissance periods we
really are excited about that system
because it allows players to customize
their strategies when we released
civilization 5 we had completely
rewritten the combat system we'd
completely rewritten the diplomatic
system and to add the religion system at
least as it was or layered on top of
that we thought would be a little bit of
overkill so when Ed really attacked us
and he really wanted accomplish
something that if it was so five he
really dug down deep and can't was
something that we think is really really
cool and I want this to be a game that I
can play over and over again and I don't
want to have you know the same choices
presented to me without a lot of
variation so I like that kind of
customization it's great now that we
have the expansion we have 34 different
civilizations to play so that's a lot of
choice right there when you start a new
game up and you decide you're going to
go down the religious path it starts in
a couple ways first off there's faith
faith is a yield in the game just like
culture sights go to get it from
buildings like the shrine of the temple
you might find it among like ancient
ruins things that you find once you just
get up to that little bit of a mound you
get to found a pantheon of the gods it
just happens the clock starts ticking
away towards getting a religion you have
to build up a lot of faith for that and
you choose one belief as your people's
brush with religion all of your cities
automatically get the Pantheon after
that it doesn't spread beyond your
borders so it only starts spreading once
you actually kind of elevate it to a
full religion how you get there is with
a great prophet you have a chance to
spawn him every turn but eventually you
will get him and when you do you can
actually use him to found a religion
after you've established your first
religion if you manage to keep building
up faith you can have your great prophet
do a holy site which is going to
generate faith kind of like a landmark
will for your great artists oh there's
one other thing too I mentioned
missionaries early you can actually
spend faith to build missionaries that
will help you to spread your religion
faster you can also use an extra great
prophet for that if you have
profit later they can actually spread
gorillas in three times they can go up
to three different cities boom boom boom
before they're expended and really do a
big job of spreading your religion I
like how espionage lets you sort of get
a look inside the other civilizations
that system goes in and starts checking
in with what the AI is thinking about
for those other civilizations and if
your spies have been there long enough
and they're high enough rank you start
to get little tidbits of information
about what they might be planning they
can also reelection so every 12 turns
what they do if they're unopposed if
there's no other any enemy spies in
those city-states is the only increase
your influence a little bit and drop
everybody else is a little bit so it's
like a little a slow drip of water if
you're impatient you can do what's
called a coup now if it's successful
you'll completely take over the allied
spot the person who was there before
will take over wherever you were before
so it happens instantly and if you're
not successful your spies executed
you'll lose all your influence generally
makes a mess of things but it's it's for
the gamblers out there I'm a gambler so
I use the button a lot they have a
chance to do a few things they can
either steal a tech because the more
science that that city is generating the
faster your spy is gonna steal tech and
you'll be able to watch the bar and
you're in your espionage UI and once it
fills up they'll have stolen attack and
it'll come into being and bam you have
it and then they'll start doing it all
over again
that's great because it brings the rest
of the world that's going on in the
Civilization game to life more you can
sort of get the secret plans and
thoughts of the other leaders through
the espionage system so that's really
what I love we've always been in an
ongoing fight with the game itself to
make naval a really compelling part of
the game so we wanted to make it
dangerous we wanted to have a reason for
you to build a fleet and the ability to
take coastal cities and give you a
foothold in enemy territory so you can
actually start out an invasion like that
you'll have to risk all your unit land
units first now you have your naval
units you take that enemy city you now
have a foothold to land all of your
other stuff up behind it and move
forward and one area we definitely found
some weaknesses it was the a eyes
ability to gather up an army get that
army across the seas so we made it so
that the embark game is canal stack with
the naval units and now a naval invasion
just doesn't take as much space on the
map we've also tried to fill in some
holes in term
of nothing between the trireme and the
caravel so we added to the galius which
is arranged renaissance-era ship and
that's actually the first ship that gets
a ranged attack capability is kind of
really nice when you get to that one but
adds a lot of work on the eye it takes
to actually gather these fleets together
how they're grouped how they're sent out
and he's made it efficient by probably
over a hundred percent so they're doing
it twice as fast as they were before the
way that they're grouping their fleets
together is working much better than has
before but that kind of AI work
the stray great generals that everybody
would notice that the I had one on the
open easy to capture a lot of those
things were really trying to squash to
make the whole experience even better
you